INTRODUCTION. xxix

Church property was considered as herit-
able and belonging to particular families, ,
had subsisted of old time. In Ireland the
usage was already very antient, and long
established before the eleventhcentury. The
Archbishoprick of Armagh, previously to
the election of St. Malachi, continued here-
ditaryinone sept during fifteen generations.
And so entirely was the archiepiscopal en·
dowment converted into lay fee, that the
eight last Bishops had not even received
holy orders. Such being the usage with
respect to the Primate of the Irish Church‚

it cannot be doubted but that the‘ inferior ⁴

members of the hierarchyenjoyed the same
privilege. Amongst the Armorican Bretons,

an hereditary succession in the Church .

equally prevailed. Theobald, the son of a
Priest, having obtained the Bishoprick of
RenneS, married the daughter of the Arch-
deacon of Nautes. When he grew old, he
retired to the Abbey ol St. Melanius, and

gave the Bishoprick to his son Walter, and
Walter inhiatum gave it to his son Warine.

These are perhaps instances rather of a
right ol alienation than of inheritance: but
Duke Conan expressly attests that a pa-
rochial church had been granted hy his
predecessors, hy homage, to married Clerks
and their sons, “jure hereditari0.'’

. ln Italy, during the tenth century, Ra·

tberius Bishop of Verona, after vainly at·

 

