xliv INTRODUCTION.

J usticiar, held the Chaucellorship. One of
the seals, the seal appointed to remain in
England, was delivered to him for the ex-
ecution of the King's commende, and he
was moreover entrusted with the custody Ν
oi the Tower of London. For the Chan-
cellorship, he gave the sum os three thou-
sand marks. A competitor, ‘⁶ Reginaldus
ltalus‚’' offered an additional thousand.
But Richard, from his greater trust, as we
may suppose, in Longchamp, accepted the
lower tender.

In order to rnaintain a species of balance
between the powers of the two jealous
Prelates, the ,custody of Windsor Castle
together with the Forest, and also the
Shrievalty of the County of Ber-ts, were
granted to Bishop Pudsey. This arrange-
ment, however, was better calculated to
enable both parties to annoy each other
than to promote concord. It was extremely
unpleasing to Pudsey: and great dissen-
sions arose between the nominal chief Jus-

ticiar and his colleague‚ whose views seldom
or ever coincided.

Feb-1190· §XXVL Richard now prepared himself Β. Abho,

in earnest lor the Crusade‚ and a Council iiieidbts.

was held inNormandy, which was attended §gaggan-

by Queen Eleanor, John Earl of Moreton ξδᾋάἒ·

his brother, and by various Bishops, who l},¹'⁸'⁵⁸’¹⁵⁷’

are stated to have crossed thc Channel by

 

