rwrnouucrrow. lxxiii

concerning the collegiate chapel founded
at Lambeth, and hy means of which, a pre·
bendal Chapter would have obtained the
rights hitherto vested in the Monks of the Ι

Cathedral. It was contrary to all ecclesi-
astical disciplina—they complained to the
Pope,-that Hubert Archbishop of Canter-
hury should act as the King’s Justiciar,
sitting as a judge upon criminals con,

demned to capital punishment, and be
so entirely wrapped up and engrossed in
seculnr affairs, that all his ecclesiastical
duties were neglected and cast aside. -
They concluded their charges against the
Archbishop hy declaring to the Pope, how,
contrary to all the privileges and immuni-
. ties of Holy Church, he had violated the
Sanctuary of St. Mary le Bow, from whence
William with the Long Beard was forcihly
taken, condemned to death, and hanged
on the trec.

The Pope received the accusation,and ad-
mitted its relevancy. Addressing Richard,
he exhorted him, as he tendered his soul's
health, to remove the Archbishop from the
Justiciarship: and furthermore, wholly to
abstain thenceforth from ernploying any
Prelate in secular affairs. A concurrent
mandate was addressed to all the PrelateS,
strictly prohibiting them from meddling
with employments so uncongenial to their

 

